
# eg
    import "github.com/natefinch/eg"

Package eg implements improved error handling mechanisms.

This package solves several common problems with Go's native error handling:

Tracebacks with context to help understand where an error came from.

The ability to wrap an erro with a new error without losing the context of
the original error.

A way to print out more detailed information about an error.

Examples:


	 type NotFoundError {
			*eg.Err
		}
	
		func IsNotFound(err error) bool {
			_, ok := err.(NotFoundError)
			return ok
		}
	
		func GetConfig() []byte, error {
			data, err := ioutil.ReadFile("config_file")
			if os.IsNotExists(err) {
				// return a new error with the original error as the cause
				return nil, NotFoundError{eg.Wrap(err, "Couldn't find config file")}
			}
			if err != nil {
				// return a generic error for other problems
				return eg.Wrap(err, "Error reading config file")
			}
			return data, nil
		}
	
		func StartFoo() error {
			data, err := GetConfig()
			if err != nil {
				// only let the IsNotFound error percolate up, so we don't let callers
				// depend on implementation-specific errors.
				return eg.Pass(err, "Can't start foo", IsNotFound)
			}
			// <start foo>
			return nil
		}
	
		func Bootstrap() error {
			err := StartFoo()
			if err != nil {
				// add context to the error
				return eg.Note(err, "Can't bootstrap")
			}
			// <bootstrap stuff>
			return nil
		}
	
		func main() {
			fmt.Printf("%v", Bootstrap())
		}
	
		// Output:
		// Can't bootstrap: Can't start foo: Couldn't find config file: open config_file: file or directory not found






## func Cause
``` go
func Cause(err error) (cause error, ok bool)
```
Cause returns the cause of the error.  If the error has a cause, ok will be
true, and cause will contain the cause.  Otherwise the err will be returned
as the cause.


## func Details
``` go
func Details(err error) string
```
Details returns detailed information about the error, or the error's Error()
string if no detailed information is available.


## func Note
``` go
func Note(err error, msg string, args ...interface{}) error
```
Note annotates the error if it is already an Annotable error, otherwise it
wraps the error in an Err using msg as the error's message.


## func Pass
``` go
func Pass(err error, msg string, iff ...func(error) bool) error
```
Pass will Note any errors that match the conditions in iff, and Mask any
errors which do not match.



## type Annotatable
``` go
type Annotatable interface {
    Annotate(msg, function, file string, line int)
}
```
Annotatable is an interface that represents an error that can aggregate
messages with associated locations in source code.











## type Detailed
``` go
type Detailed interface {
    Details() string
}
```
Detailed is an interface that represents an error that can returned detailed
information.











## type Effect
``` go
type Effect interface {
    Cause() error
}
```
Effect is an interface that represents an error that can have a cause.











## type Err
``` go
type Err struct {
    // contains filtered or unexported fields
}
```
Err is an an error that implements Annotatable, Effect, and Detailed.









### func Mask
``` go
func Mask(err error, msg string, args ...interface{}) *Err
```
Mask returns a new Err object with a message based on the given error's
message but without listing the error as the Cause.


### func New
``` go
func New(msg string, args ...interface{}) *Err
```
New returns a new Err object with the given message.


### func Wrap
``` go
func Wrap(err error, msg string, args ...interface{}) *Err
```
Wrap wraps the given error in an Err object, in effect obscuring the original
error.




### func (\*Err) Annotate
``` go
func (e *Err) Annotate(msg, function, file string, line int)
```
Annotate adds the message to the list of annotations on the error.  If msg is
empty, the annotation will only be displayed when printing the error's
details.



### func (\*Err) Cause
``` go
func (e *Err) Cause() error
```
Cause returns the error object that caused this error.



### func (\*Err) Details
``` go
func (e *Err) Details() string
```
Details returns a detailed list of annotations including files and line
numbers.



### func (\*Err) Error
``` go
func (e *Err) Error() string
```
Error implements the error interface.









- - -
Generated by [godoc2md](http://godoc.org/github.com/davecheney/godoc2md)